== CakePHP Auth Forgot Password

Simple CakePHP Auth based forgot password setup. This code has been tested in both CakePHP 1.2.X and 1.3.X using
CakePHP's Auth component and ACL behavior.

== Installation

Follow the example MVC setup included and modify as necesary. * NOTE: * this code is to be used as an example only.

=== Details

Request to +forgot_password+ prompts user to enter username. If the username is found, 
+__generatePasswordToken()+ sets +reset_password_token = [hash of a random string]+ and 
sets +token_created_at = [current timestamp]+. An email is sent to the user containing

https://example.com/users/reset_password_token/[random_hashed_string]

to complete the request within 24 hours. +reset_password_token+ validates the token, user, etc., 
and prompts the user to reset their password. If successful, the password is reset, 
the token is destroyed and the user is notified via email.

=== Cron Job

I created an hourly cron job to clean up invalid tokens. See vendors > shells > password_reset_token.php.

+ crontab -e +
+ 0 * * * * /path_to_cakeshell/cakeshell password_reset_token -cli /usr/bin -console /path_to_cake_console/cake/console -app /path_to_app/public_html/app >> /path_to_log_file/password_reset_token.log+

=== Sample SQL

+ 
CREATE TABLE `users` (
  `id` int(11) unsigned NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `username` varchar(50) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  `password` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `first_name` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `middle_name` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  `last_name` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `email` varchar(100) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  `group_id` int(11) unsigned NOT NULL DEFAULT '0',
  `active` tinyint(1) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0',
  `created` datetime NOT NULL DEFAULT '0000-00-00 00:00:00',
  `modified` datetime NOT NULL DEFAULT '0000-00-00 00:00:00',
  `reset_password_token` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  `token_created_at` datetime DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `username` (`username`),
  UNIQUE KEY `reset_password_token` (`reset_password_token`),
  KEY `group_id` (`group_id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 ;
 +

=== TODO

* Add forgot username.
* Add auto-login after password is reset.

=== Maintained By

Ken Seal (github.com/hunzinker)

=== License

MIT
